This happened a couple weeks into the
summer. I had just graduated high school
and it was my first and probably last
summer without any real responsibilities
career or academic wise.
Everyone knows the beginning of the
summer is the best time of the year. So,
it's safe to say that I was living my
best life at that point. In Wyoming,
there's this popular tradition where the
new graduates drive way out into the
plateaus and go rock climbing. Well, I'm
not actually sure if it's a tradition
anywhere besides my school, but I like
to think it is. It's kind of a right of
passage thing, celebrating your freedom
by doing something that requires a
little skill and a lot of nerve. My
friends and I have been talking about it
for weeks, and we finally decided to
make it happen. It felt like the perfect
way to kick off what I hoped would be an
unforgettable summer vacation. It was
me, Alexandra, Nick, and Jack. We've all
been friends since middle school, and
Alex was the only one with a car
reliable enough to make the drive. A
Jeep that she was obsessed with and
jumped at any excuse to take off road.
She was also the designated driver since
she doesn't drink, which worked out
perfectly for the rest of us who were
planning to bring a few beers to
celebrate once we reached the top of
whatever plateau we decided to climb.
Our plan was to check out the Flaming
Gorge lookout first, then drive through
the plateau area to find a good spot for
climbing. The lookout was incredible,
one of those views that makes you
remember why you love living in Wyoming.
After spending about an hour taking
pictures and just soaking it in, we
started heading back toward Route 80,
taking our time and keeping an eye out
for potential climbing spots, we were
driving along Highway 141 when we
spotted this really cool area off the
side of the road. There were these
massive rock formations that looked
perfect for climbing. Not too technical,
but challenging enough to be worth the
effort. Alex pulled into a small gravel
lot and we grabbed our gear and filled
our backpacks with drinks. The plateau
we chose was maybe a 15-minute climb to
the top. Nothing too crazy, just a
steady scramble up the rock face with
enough hand holds and footooth holds to
make it manageable. I have a bunch of
pictures from that day, mostly because
Alex insisted we get a million pictures
of her, so I'll include some of them.
Alex went first since she was the most
experienced climber among us, followed
by me, then Nick, then Jack bringing up
the rear. The view from the top was
absolutely worth it. You could see for
miles in every direction, just endless
stretches of Wyoming wilderness.
We cracked open our beers and were just
sitting there enjoying the moment,
talking about some of our other friends
from school. I was just kind of staring
into space, admiring the scenery, when I
noticed a car speeding down the highway.
It was a red pickup truck. To my
surprise, after passing Alex's car, it
screeched to a halt in the middle of the
highway. I kept watching and it actually
started reversing right there in the
middle of the highway. I pointed it out
to my friends and the four of us got a
little quieter, all wondering what the
truck was doing. It reversed until it
could turn into the lot we had parked
in, which it did. We all watched as
someone got out of the truck. From our
distance, we could tell it was a man
based on his height and build, but we
couldn't make out much detail. At first,
we thought maybe he was just another
person looking for a place to climb or
hike or just stop and rest. But then he
started walking around Alex's Jeep in a
way that just immediately seemed wrong.
He was peering into the windows, trying
the door handles, and generally
inspecting the car like he was planning
to break into it. That's when Nick
yelled, "Hey," from the top of the
plateau to announce our presence and let
that guy know that the car was not
unattended. We saw the guy jump a little
and start looking around, clearly unsure
where the voice had come from. Finally,
he spotted us from a top the plateau,
and he actually waved at us. that made
us think it was over, that he'd probably
get back in his truck, knowing that he
couldn't get away with doing anything.
To our surprise, though, he kept poking
around Alex's car. In response to that,
Jack yelled that we were armed, which I
still think was a bad idea. We obviously
didn't have any weapons with us, but I
figured Jack thought the bluff might
scare the guy off. Instead, the man
looked up at us and yelled back
something that made me freeze up. He
said, "Me, too, kiddo." Then he held
something up in the air and waved it
around, presumably a gun, but I couldn't
tell from so far away. What happened
next was like something out of a
nightmare. The man started ramming his
shoulder and elbow into the Jeep's
windows, clearly trying to break in. We
could hear the impact even from where we
were sitting. Alex was furious and
started screaming at him to get away
from the car. The rest of us joined in,
yelling and making as much noise as
possible while we started scrambling
down the plateau as quickly as we could
safely manage. I've never climbed down
anything so fast in my life. By the time
we heard the sound of glass shattering,
we've made it to the ground and were
sprinting across the lot toward the
jeep. The man saw us coming and yelled
for us to stop, pointing what I can now
tell was definitely a gun directly at
us. We had no choice but to stop and put
our hands up. The man told us to throw
our phones and wallets on the grounds,
which we did without hesitation. Then he
ordered us to walk backward while he
collected our stuff, keeping the gun
trained on us the entire time. I was
close enough now to get a good look at
his face. He was an older white guy,
maybe in his 50s, with a scraggly beard
and kind of weathered features. nothing
particularly distinctive, which was
frustrating because I knew it would be
impossible to identify him among a group
of generic looking white men.
After collecting all of our belongings,
he pulled out a knife and punctured one
of Alex's tires. Then he walked back to
his pickup truck, which I noticed didn't
have any license plates, and drove off
without another word. Alex was livid,
and I don't blame her. I was mostly
scared from being held at gunpoint, but
if I were in her shoes, I'd be furious
as well. Not only had this guy robbed us
and damaged her car, but we couldn't
even call the police or chase after him
since he'd taken our phones and disabled
the Jeep. Jack and I changed the tire as
fast as possible. But I'm pretty sure
all of us knew there was no way we'd be
able to do it quick enough. Once we were
back on the road, Alex drove as fast as
she could in the direction the pickup
had gone, but he was long gone. We gave
up soon after that. Nick knew the way
back to town by heart, so we decided to
just head home and figure out what to do
from there. As soon as we got to Alex's
house, we used her mom's phone to call
the police. We gave them a description
of the man and his truck, but without
license plates or any other identifying
information, there wasn't much they
could do except keep an eye out for
someone matching the description. We
never heard anything back from the
police, obviously. And as far as I know,
the guy was never caught. It completely
ruined what should have been one of the
best days of our summer, and I don't
think any of us felt safe going out to
remote areas like that for at least a
few months. I definitely didn't.
[Music]
My name is Sophia. This happened 3 years
ago when I was 19. My older brother Luke
had just graduated from college in
California, and the two of us were
driving cross country back home to New
Jersey. Since he'd been living out there
for 4 years, he had accumulated a whole
apartment's worth of stuff. furniture,
electronics, books, everything. And
there was no way he could fly back with
all of it. But that wasn't the main
reason we were doing it. I mean,
cross-country road trip signed me up for
that any day of the week. I considered
it a summer vacation, better even.
We could have taken the direct route
through Nevada and Colorado, but Luke
wanted to see more of the country he'd
been studying about, and I had never
been to places like Zion or the Grand
Canyon either, so we decided to take the
scenic route along the southern edge.
Luke insisted on renting a U-Haul
instead of just shipping everything or
selling it and starting fresh back home.
Honestly, I think he was also trying to
save money wherever he could, like a
typical fresh college graduate. The
U-Haul wasn't huge, but it was big
enough that I felt like we were driving
a small moving truck across the country.
Before we left, both our parents and
pretty much every travel forum we looked
at had the same warning. Be careful in
New Mexico. It wasn't that the whole
state was dangerous, but there were
stories about scams targeting travelers
along with crime in some of the smaller
towns and just generally sketchy
situations in the more remote desert
areas. Our dad specifically told us not
to stop there unless we absolutely had
to and if we did to stick to major gas
stations and get back on the highway as
quickly as possible. Luke and I agreed
that we'd just drive straight through
New Mexico without stopping. We'd fill
up in Arizona, drive through as fast as
possible, and stop again once we hit
Texas. It seemed like a reasonable plan.
The first part of the trip was amazing.
Zion was incredible and the Grand Canyon
was everything I'd hoped it would be.
Driving through Arizona was actually
really beautiful in a way I hadn't
expected. But somewhere in the remote
stretch of New Mexico, our plan fell
apart. The U-Haul was getting worse gas
mileage than Luke had anticipated, and
the gauge was dropping faster than we'd
calculated.
In hindsight, it was probably a little
naive to assume we'd be able to make it
through the whole state without
stopping. We started looking for the
next gas station along the highway, but
according to our GPS, it was still about
40 mi away. The gauge was already below
a quarter tank, and Luke was getting
nervous about whether we'd make it. He
pulled over to check the map, and that's
when we realized we didn't really have a
choice.
There was a small town about 10 mi ahead
that showed up on the GPS as having a
gas station. It wasn't ideal, but it was
better than risking running out of gas
in the middle of the desert. The town
was tiny, probably no more than a few
hundred people, if that. It had that
weird stillness that some small desert
towns have, like everyone's inside
hiding from the heat, even though it
wasn't particularly hot that day. There
were a few run-down buildings, a small
main street, and not much else. We
didn't see any other travelers or cars
passing through, which felt strange
since we were still relatively close to
a major highway. The gas station was one
of those generic places with a few pumps
and a small convenience store attached.
As Luke was filling up the tank, I
noticed we were getting some odd looks
from the few locals who were around.
Nothing aggressive, just lingering
stairs that made me uncomfortable. There
was this guy leaning up against the
convenience store smoking a cigarette
who I kept catching eyes with, and I had
to physically force myself not to look
at him. I told myself it was probably
just because we were obviously not from
there and we were driving a U-Haul with
California plates, but nothing happened.
After Luke finished fueling up, I tried
to navigate us back to the highway. That
should have been the simple part. We
could literally see the highway from
certain intersections in the town, but
every road we took seemed to lead us
further away from it. It was the
strangest thing. We'd drive toward where
we knew the highway was and the road
would curve or dead end or just take us
in the completely wrong direction. It
was like the entire town was literally
designed to inconvenience us, as
ridiculous as that sounds. And before
you ask why we weren't using the GPS,
well, we were, or at least we were
trying to, but it wasn't helping. It was
clear that Google hadn't updated that
location in ages because the map kept
routing us to roads that didn't exist
anymore or were inaccessible entirely.
And on top of all that, the signal was
practically non-existent out there. So,
it would go through cycles of brief
connection followed by nothingness for
minutes on end. We ended up driving
around the same few blocks multiple
times, and I was getting increasingly
anxious. Luke was trying to stay calm,
but I could tell he was frustrated, too.
It started feeling more and more
unnatural, like there was something
uninviting about that place that we were
supposed to have stayed away from. I
can't describe it, but that feeling of
literally seeing the highway, but never
being able to actually reach it was just
so bizarre and deeply unsettling.
After another 20 minutes of driving in
circles, Luke decided to go back to the
gas station and just ask for directions
the old-fashioned way. I begged him not
to, but he practically yelled at me,
saying we were literally trapped in the
one place we were told to stay away
from. I could tell he was pretty freaked
out at that point, so I just kept my
mouth shut. After returning to the gas
station, he went inside while I waited
in the van. When he came out, he had
this worried expression on his face. He
got in and said the guy working there
had given him directions, but they
seemed unnecessarily complicated.
According to the clerk, we needed to
drive 17 miles in the opposite direction
from the highway through some desert
back roads to eventually loop back to an
on-ramp. I stared at him like he had
lost his mind. In what world would we
need to drive 17 mi in the wrong
direction when we could see the highway
from where we were sitting? I asked Luke
what the guy was like, and he said he
seemed friendly enough, but there was
something off about how confident he was
about the directions. like he was trying
really hard to convince Luke that this
roundabout route was the only way. Luke
also mentioned that the clerk had been
asking a lot of questions about where we
were going and how long we would be
traveling. Before I could even say it,
Luke was like, "I don't trust it
whatsoever. We need to get the hell out
of here." He just started driving and I
didn't object. He eventually pulled over
on a quiet side street to figure out
what to do next. The GPS still wasn't
functioning properly, and I felt myself
beginning to hyperventilate.
There was a little part of me that
couldn't help but think something really
terrible was about to happen. And then,
as if on Q, a dusty pickup truck pulled
up beside us. I felt my heart starting
to race, and I looked over at Luke, who,
from what I could tell, was already
preparing to speed off should it come to
that. The truck's window rolled down,
and the guy asked Luke if we had broken
down or were lost. Luke stared at the
guy for a good few seconds before
answering, clearly trying to gauge
whether we were in danger or not. I sat
there in the passenger seat trying to
control my breathing. That's how freaked
out I was. Had I been alone, I don't
know what I would have done. After a
tense few moments, Luke just said we
were heading for the highway. He also
described the route we were planning on
taking to get there, which I realized
were the directions the gas station
clerk had given us. I didn't have the
best view of the man from where I was
sitting, but based on the tone of his
voice, it sounded like he got really
serious after hearing my brother speak.
He asked us if we were [__] crazy and
said we should definitely not follow
those directions.
He went on to say that the route my
brother had described would take us
toward a really desolate area that was
suspected to be a drug running hot spot.
Instead, he gave us alternate
directions, then said it was a miracle
we hadn't been robbed already,
considering how clueless we were and how
badly we stuck out, driving a U-Haul and
all. Then, before we could even thank
him, he drove off. Neither Luke or I
said anything after that. Luke just
started driving, following the man's
directions.
Sure enough, about a mile outside of
town, there was this gravel road that
was easy to miss if you weren't looking
for it. It was the least intuitive, most
convoluted highway entrance I'd ever
seen, but after following the road for a
good while, it did actually get us back
onto the highway, and that was that.
Luke and I talked a little bit about the
whole thing, but I don't think either of
us wanted to harp on it too much. We
obviously laugh about it now, and our
whole family knows the story and asks us
to tell it every so often, but at the
time, it was the most unsettling thing
that's ever happened to us. I'll never
forget that indescribable feeling of
being there. It was like this mix of
dread and anticipation and anxiety
blended into one. My brother described
it as a kind of breathless limbo where
you're not quite suffocating, but you
can feel it coming. I never want to
experience that again.
[Music]
This happened 5 years ago, five summers
ago to be exact. My girlfriend at the
time, let's just call her PS, had just
graduated from college with me having
graduated a year earlier. We aren't
together anymore, but there's no bad
blood between us, and I don't regret a
single bit of our relationship, even
though it eventually fell apart. She was
mixed, half Croatian and half Brazilian.
And the two of us had always talked
about going on a European trip together
after finishing college. And if there's
one thing you should know about PS, it's
that if she put her mind to something,
she was going to stop at nothing to see
it through. Call it the Latin blood.
That's always the joke I made. That's
just how she was. So, as soon as she
graduated, the two of us started
planning the summer vacation we had
always fantasized about. There was one
glaring issue, though. We were both
painfully broke, so we'd have to cheap
it. The itinerary we ended up settling
on was pretty ambitious for two people
on a shoestring budget. We'd spend a
week in Croatia, finishing up with two
nights in Ria, which was Pas's
grandparents hometown. She had never
been there before, but she'd grown up
hearing stories about it from her
grandmother. And I could tell she was
excited to see where her family came
from. Because we were trying to save
every possible scent, we couldn't afford
any of the nice hotels or even decent
host. Instead, we ended up booking the
cheapest Airbnbs and travel lodges we
could find on short notice. I'm talking
about places with one-star reviews and
photos that look like they were taken
with a flip phone, but we didn't care.
We were just happy to be going. Zagreb
and Dravnik were incredible, even on our
tight budget. The cities were packed
with tourists, which made it easy to
blend in and find cheap food and free
activities. But Reeka was different.
It's a port city on the northern coast,
and while it's technically on the water,
it's not exactly what you'd call a beach
destination. More importantly, it
definitely wasn't a popular tourist
spot. Walking around, PS and I were
clearly some of the only foreigners in
the entire town. That should have been
our first red flag, but honestly, we
kind of loved it. PS speaks decent
Croatian, not fluent, but enough to get
by, and I was picking up bits and pieces
as we went. We spent our first day just
wandering around talking to locals,
soaking up the authentic Croatian
experience we couldn't get in the
touristy cities. Piaz is one of those
people who can strike up a conversation
with anyone, and I'm pretty talkative
myself, so we were having a blast just
chatting with shopkeepers and random
people on the street.
Everyone seemed friendly enough, though
I did notice we were getting some
lingering stairs. Not the usual curious
looks you'd expect tourists to get.
These felt different, like more intense,
but PS. Didn't seem bothered by it, so I
figured I was just being paranoid. On
our second day, we decided to venture a
little further from the city center to
find somewhere authentic to eat lunch.
PS had heard about this small restaurant
area from someone at our Airbnb. Nothing
fancy, just a local center that
supposedly had amazing seafood
restaurants. It was maybe a 15-minute
walk from downtown through some
residential streets that felt
increasingly quiet as we got further
from the main area. The restaurant
itself was pretty nondescript, just a
small building with a handful of tables
inside and a simple handwritten menu
taped to the window. But the moment we
walked in, I knew PS had been right
about the food. The smell was
incredible, and you could tell
everything was fresh and homemade. We
sat down at a table near the window and
ordered way too much food. Grilled fish,
some kind of seafood, pasta, bread, and
a bottle of local wine that cost about
3. I remember thinking we'd struck gold
finding this place. The food was
absolutely fantastic, better than
anything we'd had in the touristy
restaurants, and it was costing us
practically nothing.
At one point, I noticed that while we'd
been eating, a group of five men had
come in and sat down just two tables
away from us. They looked rough, the
kind of guys you'd cross the street to
avoid in any country. But they were just
sitting there eating, not really paying
attention to us, as far as I could tell.
I was actually kind of surprised I
hadn't noticed them earlier. I figured I
had just been too distracted by how good
the food was or too consumed in the
conversation I was having with my
girlfriend. I didn't think much of it
and went back to eating. But I remember
finding it kind of annoying how loudly
they were talking. We were about halfway
through our meal, just talking and
enjoying ourselves when PS suddenly went
quiet. She was looking past me toward
the back of the restaurant toward those
guys, and I could tell something had
shifted in her expression. Before I
could ask her what was wrong, she leaned
across the table and said very quietly
that we needed to leave right now. I
whispered back, asking what she was
talking about, but she was already
reaching for her purse. She said she was
serious, and there was something in her
voice that told me I'd better listen. I
still didn't understand what was
happening, but she's not the type to
panic over nothing. She speaks the
language. She knew the culture better
than I did. If she said we needed to get
out of there, there was probably a good
reason. I pulled out a handful of kuna
bills and threw them on the table, way
more than our meal costs, and I followed
her toward the door. The whole time I
was expecting her to explain, but she
just kept walking faster, practically
pulling me along by the arm. It wasn't
until we were outside that I finally
demanded to know what was going on. She
looked back toward the restaurant and
said she'd heard those men talking. They
were discussing what they were going to
do to us, to her specifically. Her voice
was shaking a little, which scared me
more than anything else. She said she
heard them say they'd separate us first
and some guy named Luca would know what
to do, whoever that was. She said some
other things that I don't want to
repeat, but the message was crystal
clear. We needed to get back to the main
part of the town ASAP.
I told her they might have been joking,
but she shook her head and said they
weren't talking about things they wanted
to do, but things they were going to do.
She told me she got the impression that
what they were discussing was routine as
opposed to fantasy. I believed her.
That's when I made the mistake of
looking back toward the restaurant. All
five men were standing outside now and
they were definitely watching us, not
even trying to be subtle about it. The
moment they saw me looking, they started
walking in our direction. I grabbed her
hand and told her they were following
us. Without another word, we both
started running.
Not jogging, not walking fast, full-on
sprinting back toward the city center.
The problem was, we were a lot further
from downtown than I'd realized, and the
streets between us and safety were
mostly empty residential blocks. I could
hear footsteps behind us, and when I
glanced back, all five men were chasing
us now. They weren't even pretending
anymore. They were just straight up
pursuing us through the streets. It was
downright terrifying. PS was in better
shape than me, but I somehow managed to
keep up, probably because of adrenaline.
We ran for what felt like forever,
turning down random streets, hoping we
were going in the right direction.
Finally, after maybe 10 minutes of the
most intense running of my life, we
started seeing other people on the
sidewalks and hearing traffic. The men
stopped chasing us as soon as we hit the
busy area. I looked back one more time
and saw them just standing there, maybe
two blocks behind us, watching us, but
not coming any closer. It was like they
knew they couldn't do whatever they'd
been planning once there were witnesses
around.
We were both completely out of breath
and shaking from adrenaline. She was
crying a little, though she was trying
to hide it. I'd never seen her that
scared before, and it made the whole
thing feel even more real. We found a
cafe in the main square and sat down
trying to process what had just
happened. That's when this older
Croatian guy at the table next to us,
who must have overheard us talking in
English, leaned over and asked if we
were okay. When we explained what had
happened, he just shook his head and
called us idiots. Not in a mean way, but
like he couldn't believe how naive we'd
been. He said tourists shouldn't wander
around alone in that part of the city,
especially not obvious foreigners like
us. Then PS described the restaurant
we'd been to and the guy's expression
got even more serious. What he told us
literally made me dizzy. He said we'd
basically walked into a known hangout
for local criminals, that the place was
connected to some kind of organized
crime group that operated in the area.
He seemed genuinely concerned for us,
like we'd narrowly avoided something
really bad. I mentioned something about
notifying local authorities, and he just
laughed, but he didn't elaborate
further. Then he paid for his coffee and
promptly left the cafe.
PS and I didn't linger much longer. We
got up after catching our breath and
headed straight back to our Airbnb. The
rest of our trip was basically ruined.
We were too spooked to leave our room
except to grab food from places right in
the city center. We spent our last day
just sitting inside watching TV on my
laptop and counting down the hours until
our flight. Looking back, I'm incredibly
grateful that P.S. had the presence of
mind to get us out of there when she
did. If she hadn't understood what those
men were saying, or if she'd hesitated
even a little bit, I don't know what
would have happened to us. It's one of
those experiences that makes you realize
how quickly a normal day can turn into
something genuinely dangerous,
especially when you're in an unfamiliar
place where you don't fully understand
the local dynamics. I honestly still
feel pretty stupid for being so casual
in a foreign country. I know that's one
of the most dangerous things you can do,
especially if you look nothing like a
local. We didn't talk much about the
incident after we got home, but I know
it affected both of us. PS had always
been fearless about traveling and
exploring new places, but I think that
day in Ria changed something for her
because it certainly did for me.
[Music]